pysui zkLogin
=============

zkLogin lets a Sui transaction be signed with an OAuth2 identity rather than a
traditional keypair. This page walks through the full flow using
:py:class:`pysui.zklogin_seal.zklogin_client.ZkClient` and
:py:class:`pysui.zklogin_seal.zklogin_client.ZkSession`.

For a detailed overview of the zkLogin protocol, see the
`Sui zkLogin Integration Guide <https://docs.sui.io/sui-stack/zklogin-integration/zklogin>`_.

The complete runnable example is ``ucs_zklogin_example.py`` in the project root.

Prerequisites
-------------

* ``pysui[zklogin-seal]`` installed — see :doc:`zklogin_seal_install`.
* A Google Cloud Desktop app credentials file (``client_secret_*.json``).
* A funded standard Sui address — the example sends SUI to the zkLogin address to
  fund its first transaction.

User Salt
---------

A 128-bit decimal *salt* is combined with the OAuth subject claim to derive the
zkLogin Sui address. **The same salt + same provider identity always produces the
same address** — store it between runs.

.. code-block:: python

    from pysui.zklogin_seal.zklogin_client import generate_user_salt

    salt = generate_user_salt()   # random; store this value
    print(salt)

To recover the same address across sessions, pass the stored salt directly to ``ZkClient``::

    zk_client = ZkClient(config=cfg, salt=stored_salt)

Step 1 — Create ZkClient and ZkSession
---------------------------------------

``ZkClient`` holds the configuration and salt. ``ZkSession`` generates an ephemeral
keypair and derives the nonce that must be embedded in the OAuth login. Fetch the
current epoch from the node first:

.. code-block:: python

    from pysui import (
        PysuiConfiguration,
        client_factory,
        AsyncClientBase,
        GetBasicCurrentEpochInfo,
    )
    from pysui.zklogin_seal.config import ZkSealConfig
    from pysui.zklogin_seal.zklogin_client import ZkClient, ZkSession

    pysui_config = PysuiConfiguration()
    pysui_client: AsyncClientBase = client_factory(pysui_config)

    result = await pysui_client.execute(command=GetBasicCurrentEpochInfo())
    if not result.is_ok():
        raise RuntimeError(result.result_string)
    current_epoch = result.result_data.epoch
    max_epoch = current_epoch + 2    # ephemeral key valid for this many epochs (max 30)

    cfg = ZkSealConfig()
    zk_client = ZkClient(config=cfg, salt=salt)

    session: ZkSession = zk_client.session(
        provider="google",
        current_epoch=current_epoch,
        max_epoch=max_epoch,
    )
    print(f"nonce : {session.nonce}")

Step 2 — Obtain a JWT with the Nonce
--------------------------------------

The nonce from Step 1 must be embedded in the OAuth login before the provider signs
the JWT. Pass it as the ``nonce`` parameter in the OAuth authorization URL.

How the JWT (``id_token``) is obtained depends on your application: browser redirect,
mobile SDK, or server-side exchange are all valid approaches. The only requirement is
that the nonce computed by ``ZkSession`` is embedded in the authorization request
before the provider signs the token. Once you have the JWT, pass it directly to
``process_jwt()`` in Step 3 — no further OAuth plumbing is needed by pysui.

The complete runnable example ``ucs_zklogin_example.py`` shows a local browser-based
Google OAuth flow for reference.

Step 3 — Derive the zkLogin Address
--------------------------------------

``process_jwt()`` extracts claims, verifies the nonce, and derives the deterministic
Sui address:

.. code-block:: python

    from pysui.zklogin_seal.zklogin_client import ZkClaimKey

    address = session.process_jwt(jwt=id_token, key_claim_name=ZkClaimKey.SUBJECT)
    print(f"zkLogin address : {address}")

``ZkClaimKey.SUBJECT`` uses the ``sub`` field. Other claim keys are available for
providers that use different identifying fields.

Step 4 — Fetch the ZK Proof
-----------------------------

The ZK proof is generated by a prover service (URL configured in ``ZkSealConfig`` per
provider). This is an async call:

.. code-block:: python

    result = await session.get_proof(pysui_config=pysui_config)
    if not result.is_ok():
        raise RuntimeError(result.result_string)

    kp = session.keypair   # ZkLoginKeyPair — ready to sign transactions

Step 5 — Sign and Execute Transactions
----------------------------------------

After ``get_proof()`` succeeds, ``session.keypair`` is a ``ZkLoginKeyPair`` that can
sign transactions on behalf of the zkLogin address. Use it by passing
``initial_sender=session.address`` to ``client.transaction()``:

.. code-block:: python

    txer: AsyncSuiTransaction = await pysui_client.transaction(
        initial_sender=session.address
    )
    scoin = await txer.split_coin(coin=txer.gas, amounts=[1_000_000])
    await txer.transfer_objects(transfers=[scoin], recipient=recipient_address)

    tx_dict: dict = await txer.build_and_sign()
    result = await pysui_client.execute(command=ExecuteTransaction(**tx_dict))

.. note::

   The zkLogin address must hold SUI before it can be used as a transaction sender.
   Fund it from a standard address first.

Epoch Lifetime
--------------

The ephemeral keypair — and therefore the ZK proof — is valid until ``max_epoch``.
After that, a new session must be created (new ephemeral keypair, new OAuth login,
new proof). The ``--max-epoch`` argument in the example script sets the number of
epochs ahead; the maximum allowed by Sui is 30.
